Add files managed by Kuzu page (#553)
kuzudb/kuzu-docs: src/content/docs/files.mdx

---
title: Files Managed by Kuzu
---

## Database files

> Prior to v0.11.0, Kuzu required the database path to be a directory and automatically created and managed multiple files within that directory.

Reviewer: This can be a note at the end of this section

Starting from v0.11.0, Kuzu switched to a single-file format, where the database path is required to be a file rather than a directory.
This change makes it easier to move and share databases. 
The single-file format has also been adopted by other database systems, such as DuckDB and SQLite.

When opening a Kuzu database in on-disk read-write mode, Kuzu creates a file at the specified path if it doesn't exist.
Additionally, temporary files might be created during runtime.

We list all types of files that may be created and maanged by Kuzu in the following table:

| File Type | Example |
| --- | --- |
| Database file | `db_file` |
| Lock file | `db_file.lock` |
| WAL file | `db_file.wal`  |
| Shadow file | `db_file.shadow` |
| Tmp file | `db_file.tmp` |
| Extension files | `~/.kuzu/extensions/0.11.0/osx_arm64/json/libjson.kuzu_extension` |

#### Database file
Stores all on-disk data of the database since the last checkpoint. 

#### Lock file
Created to ensure that no two Kuzu `Database` objects can open the same database file simultaneously when one of them is in the read-write mode. 

> The lock file is removed when the database exits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The lock file is removed when the database process terminates and the connection is closed.
```

For more details, please see [Limitations of creating multiple database objects](https://docs.kuzudb.com/concurrency/#limitations-of-creating-multiple-database-objects). 

#### WAL file
Records all transaction changes since the last checkpoint. The file is only created when write transactions are committed in the database, and is removed when a checkpoint succeeds.

#### Shadow file

> A temporary file created during the checkpoint phase.

Reviewer 3: Ditto

> It is only created when the database starts a checkpoint, and is removed when the database exits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is only created when the database starts a checkpoint, and is removed when the database process terminates and the connection is closed.
```

Reviewer: Or "when the Kuzu process exits"?
